# CrunchBaseStartupAnalysis
An ongoing project to analyze startup scenes across the globe through the CrunchBase API. Includes tools for startup, investsor, and ecosystem analysis.

I’ve created Organization, Investor, FundingRound, Investment, Degree, and Website objects. These all represent their respective event or object in the investing world. An organization represents one of the companies we’re analyzing, while an investor represents an institution or individual providing capital. Each object has two other classes, one “JSONWrapper*******” class and a “********Properties” class. The wrapper class simply extracts the object from the CrunchBase API’s JSON wrapper around the data. The properties objects contain all relevant information about the object itself. This is a nice way organizing things so the object classes themselves don’t become too convoluted. Note that every one of these classes can be scaled to contain all additional information on the CrunchBase servers.

The other classes of note include Relationships and CrunchBaseQuery. The Relationships object is a cool idea based off of the CrunchBase API. Every entity (Organization, Investor, FundingRound, etc.) has a Relationships object containing all other objects related to it. For example, an Investor will use its Relationships object to access its Investments, FundingRounds, Degrees, etc. This is a great way to simplify and organize the code. The CrunchBaseQuery class will query the API per the user’s parameters.

The AnalyzeStartupScene class includes the main method, which reads in the companies file, pulls their information from the API, updates their investors’ information from the API, then analyzes the startup scene. It prints as well as makes CSV files of the four top-ten lists specified by the functions. Note that few investors actually specify how much they invest in each Investment. As a result, the list of investors who are ramping up offers little insight. This could easily be changed to list investors with the greatest number of investments in the past year, but I'm leaving it for now.

The AnalyzeFrenchFintech scene pulls data for fintech companies in France. The API carries a small number of these startups, which is rather dissapointing. The class performs most of the same functions found in AnalyzeStartupScene.

Running the program takes time, as it makes many API calls. I’m spacing out the calls to be polite to the system, so we’re running at approximately one call per second. As it completes calls, the program prints out the URL queried. A few of these produce bad cookie exceptions, which I’ve decided to let fail as opposed to accept the questionable cookies. One or two of them cannot find a corresponding company in the database. Once the queries are finished, the program prints out the four top-ten lists, creates the CSV files, and exits.
